"When I stepped out...
Into the bright sunlight
from the darkness of the movie house...
J' seize upon the moment long ago
j' one breath away
and there you will be
j' so young and carefree
j' again you will see
I that place in time
j' so gold
I still away into that way back when
I you thought
that all would last for ever
I but like the weather
j' nothing can ever and be in time
j' stay gold
I but can it be when we can see
I so vividly a memory
I and "yes" you say
j' so must the day too fade away
j' and leave a ray of sun
j' so gold
j' life is but a twinkling of an eye
j' yet filled with sorrow
and compassion
j' though not imagined
I all things that happen
I will age too old
j' though gold
j' gold, though gold j'
[music fades out]
[J' Van Morrison: "Gloria!"]
J' she makes me feel so good
j' she makes me feel all right...
Hey, what's going on, dal?
What's up?
- We're early.
- — what do you wanna do?
Nothing legal, man.
Let's get outta here.
J' g-I-o-r-i-a, Gloria
j' g-I-o-r-i-a, Gloria
j' I'm gonna shout loud it all night
Gloria
I I'm gonna shout it every day
j' yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah...
How you doing, Joe?
[Indistinct chatter]
[Shouting]
J' Gloria
j' g-I-o-r-i-a, Gloria
j' I'm gonna shout it loud all night
j' Gloria
I I'm gonna shout it every day
j' yeah, yeah, yeah...
[Siren wails]
Hey, soda, here come the hobos.
Hey, sodapop, I ain't got no cash.
Anyone want to buy
an old windshield wiper?
- Come on, dally!
- — give them the money.
So, what's the movie about?
Ow! Dallas! Huh?
I don't know, Johnny.
One of those beach movies.
You know, they put out
a whole bunch of 'em.
I at just about midnight
j' she makes me feel so good...
Hey, did I say you guys
could play on my grass, huh?
No.
— well, what are you doing here?
Give me those cards, will you?
J' when she comes to my house...
- You guys ever played 52 pick—up?
- — [muttering]
What?
Hey, don't get, don't get wise.
I don't like little kids.
I don't like 'em. I just...
J' g-I-o-r-i-a, Gloria...
[Shouts] Get out of here
or I'll kill you!
J' I'm gonna shout loud it all night
Gloria...
Get out of here, you little brats!
J' yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
it's so good, Gloria j'
- — the sky's getting dark. Let's go.
- Let's go, man.
[Woman on screen] Do you think
Fanny might have been right?
[Man #1] Why are you always worried?
Any reason she should be?
[Man #2] No reason at all.
For you either.
[Man #3] Hey, Stella! Come here!
- — What do you think you're doing?
- Cherry, just relax!
I mean, just try.
You're supposed to be my girlfriend.
[Cherry] Don't ever pull
anything like that again!
- [Bob] Are you serious? Just try it!
- [Cherry] Who do you think you are?
Don't do this to me, cherry!
I'm not going back there.
I don't understand! I mean...
— they wanna make things complicated.
- [Girl] Hey, Wayne, bring me a coke!
- — I don't have enough money!
- Baby, you wanna see what's hanging?
- — I'm gonna hang you, two—bit!
Are you sure you wanna do this?
I came here to see a movie,
and I'm gonna see a movie!
I'm freezing, man!
Why didn't you bring a coat, stupid?
I forgot.
[Chuckles]
[Giggles]
Some cute redhead, huh?
Are you a real redhead, huh?
Come on, dal.
Are you real?
[Laughter]
How can I find out if this is
your, your, your real red hair?
If this is the same red hair
that you have on your, your...
These eyebrows here. Is it...?
[Scoffs]
- [Laughs] — cut it out, dal.
Get your feet off my chair
and shut your trap!
Who's gonna make me, huh?
— I'm gonna get a coke.
- — Who? Your boyfriend?
- Leave her alone, dal.
That's the greaser who just got out
of some jail or something.
Yeah, sure. Whatever you say, honey.
Leave us alone,
or I'll call the cops.
Oh, my, my!
You got me scared to death(!)
What am I,
what am I gonna do now, pony, huh?
This girl's making me shake!
Why don't you leave us alone?
Be nice and leave us alone!
I'm never nice.
Can I interest you
in a Coca-Cola or a 7up?
[Shouts] Get lost, hood!
Hey, I'm sorry. I didn't...
[Chuckles] I didn't know...
I didn't know you had this problem
with... yelling in my face.
Ok. All right. I'll go.
I know when I'm not wanted.
[Horn honks]
Woo—how!
Get off, you filthy greaser!
[Laughs]
Are you gonna start on us now, too?
You don't look the type, anyway.
What's your name?
Ponyboy Curtis.
That's an original name.
Yeah, my dad,
he was an original person.
I got a brother named sodapop.
It even says so on his birth certificate.
My name's Sherry, but my friends
call me cherry cos of my hair.
I know. We go to the same school.
You're a cheerleader.
Yeah.
You don't look old enough
to be going to high school.
What's a nice boy like you doing
hanging around with that trash?
Dally's my buddy. I'm a greaser, too.
We're all friends.
— I'm sorry. I didn't know.
Your brother, sodapop, he works at
the gasoline station, right? At dx.
Yeah, that's him.
Yeah, soda's the cute one!
He's a doll. I should have known
you was brothers!
[Chuckles]
Hey, how come we don't see
your brother at school any more?
Has he been working full—time
since your parents died?
- He's a dropout.
- — oh, that's too bad.
Here.
I thought this might cool you off.
[Horn honks]
Maybe that will
cool you off, greaser!
When you learn to talk and
act decent, I might cool off, too!
Fiery, huh? Just the way I like 'em!
- Get off of me!
- Come on.
- Ow!
- Look, leave her alone, dal.
What did you say?
Come on. You heard me.
Leave her alone.
What did you say, you little shit?
What did you say to me?
- Come on. — you wiseass.
[Man #1] Hey, wise guy,
cool it, will you?
[Man #2] Sit down, punk!
Now you blew it.
Thank you. He had me scared to death.
You sure didn't show it.
Nobody talks to dal like that.
From what I saw, you do.
Why don't y'all come sit here with us
so you can protect us?
What do you think, man? Come on.
— might as well.
How old are y'all?
I thought you were both 14!
How come y'all ain't scared of us
like you was of daily?
Oh, you two are too sweet—looking
to scare anyone.
Besides, I know about Dallas Winston.
You two don't look mean.
Yeah, right.
We're young and innocent.
No. You're just not dirty.
Come on, dal's ok.
I mean, he's tough and all.
But he's a cool old guy,
if you get to know him.
He'd leave you alone
if he knew who you were.
Well, I'm glad he doesn't know us.
— I kind of admire him.
Oi, greaser! You're dead!
What's he doing? Get out of my hair!
Hey, what have you done?
Here, kid, have a beer.
It'll settle your nerves.
Well, now, who we got here?
Your great-grandmothers, huh?
What are you two young ladies doing
hanging out with these greasers?
Dal was bothering them.
He was, huh? — yeah.
Where is old dal now anyway?
Yeah, where is old dally?
He left, Tim.
Hey, I know he slashed my tyres!
Look, Tim, he left.
He's not here. Really.
- You guys seen dally? — no, no.
Yeah, well, I'll be looking for him.
Dally got a blade?
— I don't think so.
Good deal. Tim will fight fair
as long as he don't.
You guys don't believe
in playing rough, do you?
- — Well, a fair fight ain't rough.
- Yeah, boy. Real simple!
Yeah! If he gets killed or something,
you just Bury him. No sweat!
[Chuckles]
- You dig, ok, baby. You want a chew?
- Come on, two—bit.
Help yourself.
Put hair on your chest!
[Chuckles]
Ponyboy, come with me
and get some cokes and popcorn.
Sure.
Y'all want some? — I do.
Yeah, me, too.
Get Johnny some, too. I'm buying.
Here you go.
Your friend, the one
with the sideburns, is he ok?
Yeah, he ain't dangerous like dal,
if that's what you mean.
Hey, what are you doing?
— hey, man!
He sure scared Johnny.
Johnny's a nervous wreck anyway.
He got beat up a few months ago
by some soc.
Is that how he got his scar?
Yeah, the guy
was wearing a few rings.
- — Not all of us are like that.
- Sure.
That's like saying all you greasers
are like Dallas Winston.
- — Leave him, will you?
- What you gonna do about it?
Let's take it outside.
That's what I'll do.
All right, you two.
Why don't you both take it outside?
Well, he's jumped a few people.
Anyway, you think the socs
have it made.
The rich kids. The southside soc.
Well, I'll tell you something,
ponyboy,
and it might come as a surprise,
but things are rough all over.
Come on. Let's get out of here.
Or two—bit will think
we eloped to Mexico!
- So, you're from the southside, huh?
- — yes.
- — It must be a nice neighbourhood.
- It is. I like it.
- Do you? — mm-hm.
Yeah, I'm...
I'm from the other side of town.
[Chuckles] Oh.
[Shouting]
[Horns honk]
Tell me about your oldest brother.
You never seem to talk about him.
What's to tell?
He's big and roofs houses.
No, really. I mean, what's he like?
I feel like I know soda
for as much as you talk about him.
Tell me about darry.
Is he wild and reckless like soda?
Or dreamy like you?
He ain't like soda,
and he sure ain't like me!
He can't stand me!
I bet he wishes he could stick me in
some boys' home. Soda won't let him.
- — What are you talking about, ponyboy?
- Come on. You all get along fine.
No, we don't! You shut your trap,
cos you ain't wanted at home either!
You shut your mouth, kid!
[Ponyboy] I'm sorry.
I got a little mad.
[Johnny] Don't worry about it.
- We couldn't get along without you.
- — marcia!
Look who's coming!
— what are we gonna do?
- Just act normal. Just keep calm.
- Who are these clowns?
Cherry, what's going on?
What are you doing?
- Just because we got a little drunk...
- A little?!
You call reeling and passing out
on the streets "a little"?
Bob, I've told you before,
I'm never going out with you
when you're drinking and I mean it!
That's no reason to go walking
the streets with these bums!
- Who are you calling bums, pal?
- — you!
Randy!
— we got two more in the back seat.
Pity the back seat!
— If you're looking for a fight...
I am looking for a fight!
Let's go! Come on! Right now!
Come on!
All right! We'll go with you!
Just wait a minute!
We ain't scared of these bastards!
— I hate fights! I hate 'em!
[Cherry] Come here, ponyboy.
I'm sorry.
Look, I couldn't use this.
I could never cut no one.
[Bob] Cherry! Come on!
We'd better go with 'em.
If I see you in school and I don't
say hi, don't take it personal, ok?
Yeah, I know.
Really.
You're a nice boy and everything.
It's ok.
[Chuckles]
I hope I never see
Dallas Winston again.
If I do,
I'll probably fall in love with him.
- Come on, baby.
- — don't touch me!
- [Bob] Just watch it, greaseball.
- [Ponyboy] Says who?
Boy, those are two of the
best—looking girls I've ever seen.
Yeah.
- — What was that?
- Marcia's number.
Probably a phoney one, too.
I must have been
out of my mind to ask for it.
Girl like that would never
go out with me, anyway.
Where are y'all going?
Home. — whoa!
[Laughter] — here!
I got me a new hat!
[Shouting inside the house]
You're crazy!
I don't know why I handed you that busted
bottle. You never would have used it.
I might have. Where you headed?
I don't know. Maybe I'll go play
snooker or get drunk.
- I'll see you later! — ok!
I hate when my folks are fighting.
Let's go to the lot.
It was because we're greasers, pone.
Might have hurt her reputation
or something, that's all.
Don't worry about it.
Yeah, I guess so.
[Sighs]
[Train horn blares in the distance]
Man, that was a tough car, huh?
Mustangs, they're tough.
Big—time socs, all right.
It's always the same.
[Shouting in the distance]
I can't take
much more of this, ponyboy!
I'll... I'll kill myself or something!
I don't know!
[Sobs]
Don't talk like that, Johnny.
Come on. You can't kill yourself.
I've gotta do something.
Oh, god. It seems...
It seems like there's gotta be
some place without greasers and socs.
There must be some place...
With just plain ordinary people.
People.
It's like that out in the country.
Away from all the big towns.
Out in the country.
[Ponyboy]
I miss going there with my folks.
[Idyllic music]
[Metal crunching]
[Train bell ringing]
[Johnny] Ponyboy!
Pony, wake up!
Come on!
God! What time is it?
I don't know. I went to sleep, too.
You better get home, all right?
I'm gonna stay all night out here.
Who'll care anyway?
All right.
If you get cold, come on to my house.
Yeah, all right.
What is darry gonna say?
[Dogs barking]
Yeah, it's darry.
Yeah. Bye.
Where the hell have you been?
Do you know what time it is?
It's two o'clock
in the morning, kiddo.
Pony, where have you been?
— I feel asleep in the lot.
- You what?!
- — I was talking to Johnny.
And I fell asleep in the lot.
I didn't mean to.
Yeah?
And I can't even call the cops
because you two would be thrown
in a boys' home so fast,
it would make your head spin!
- Come on, pony. Let's go to bed now.
- — look, I said I didn't mean to!
"I didn't mean to!" "I forgot."
That's all I ever hear from you.
- Come on, darry...
- Sick and tired of you sticking up for him!
Don't you yell at him!
Ponyboy! I didn't mean to!
[Dogs barking]
[Grunts]
Come on, Johnny!
Move out of the way!
Take it easy, pony. It will be all right.
You just have to cool it, man.
Got a cigarette, Johnny?
I'm scared to death.
Well, don't be, man.
You're scaring me.
What happened? — darry hit me!
I swear we used to get along fine
until mum and dad died.
Now he can't stand me!
I think I like it better
when the old man's hitting me.
At least he knows I'm there.
Let's walk to the park and back.
Maybe I'll cool off enough
to go home.
Yeah, all right.
Ain't you about to freeze to death?
You're ain't a' woofin'.
Pony!
Pony, got a light?
Found this butt, man.
Yeah, here you go, Johnny.
Uh—oh. Look what's coming.
This is our territory.
[Johnny] I bet they're looking for us.
- — Wanna split?
- Stay cool.
Well, well, well.
What do you guys know?
They're drunk.
It's that guy with the rings, man.
Aren't these the greasers
who tried to pick up on our women?
Hey, you're out of your territory now.
You guys better watch it.
No, pal. You better watch it.
You guys know what greasers are?
White trash with long greasy hair.
[Chuckles]
- — You know what a soc is?
- What?
White trash with mustangs and Madras.
Get 'em!
[Shouting]
Johnny!
Bmmfl - stay down, pal!
Chuck him!
[Ponyboy coughs]
[Coughs and splutters]
Grab his arms! Right down!
Did somebody get a drink for this
greaser, huh? Here, give me that.
Come on! Have a drink, pal!
[Coughs and splutters]
[Shivers]
I... I... I killed him.
I killed that boy.
[Whispers] I killed him.
Johnny, I think I'm gonna be sick!
Go ahead, man.
I ain't... I ain't gonna look at you.
[Whispers] Ain't gonna look at you.
[Vomits]
Pony, are you all right?
You really did kill 'em, huh, Johnny?
[Shivers]
Yeah.
I had to.
They, they were drowning you,
and they might have killed you!
They were gonna beat me up!
- — What happened to the other guys?
- Huh?
They... they all ran.
They all ran off.
When I stabbed him, they all ran.
[Exhales]
[Train horn blares]
[Knocks on door]
[Kisses teeth] What do you boys want?
- — Dally. W—w—w—we gotta see dally.
- He's busy.
Just tell him it's ponyboy
and Johnny, man! He'll come!
Come on!
[J' country music]
What do you guys want?
- — Johnny killed the soc.
- What?
All right. Good for you. Let's go.
We figured you could get us out,
if anyone could, dal.
I... I'm sorry I got you away
from this party and all,
but I just don't know
what to do, man.
I was just trying to get some sleep.
I got into a fight
with Shepard tonight.
Let's see what we can do
about this mess. Get in.
- Ponyboy, are you wet?
- — yeah, I'm ok.
Hey, hey! Pony, come on, man.
You'll die of pneumonia
before the cops ever get to you!
Come on.
Hey, stupid, take the sweatshirt off,
will you, man?
You'll freeze to death.
Man, I wish I had a weed now.
Here. Don't point
the thing at me, will you?
It's loaded. Come on.
Here you go. That's 50 bucks.
Look, I'm not gonna tell your brother
and get my head kicked in, man.
Then don't tell him!
Here. It's buck's. It's big on you,
but it's dry. Come here.
Get the 3.15 train to windrixville.
It's a freight.
There's an abandoned church
on top of Jay mountain.
There's a pump in the back, so
you don't have to worry about water.
Get a week's supply of food,
as soon as you get there,
before the story gets out.
And then don't so much as stick
your noses out the door. Am I clear?
Yeah.
I'll be up there
as soon as I think everything's cool.
Hey, relax, buddy.
Come on, man. It'll work out.
All right.
Man, I thought New York
was the only place
I'd end up in a murder wrap.
Jesus Christ!
Ok, you take care, kid. Good luck.
Let's check the other car.
— yeah.
[Train horn blares]
[Johnny] Check it out, man.
[Ponyboy] The church.
[Squawks]
- — What was that?
- Just an owl.
Johnny?
Yeah?
You all right?
Man, this floor sure is hard.
[Dog barks in the distance]
[Birds twittering]
[Footsteps, whistling]
School day! Rise and shine!
Come on. Time to get up!
- — [Dally whistling]
- Johnny?
Right, I got a loaf of bread,
and a week's supply of baloney here.
Peanut butter.
"Gone with the wind"?
Johnny, how did you know I always
wanted "gone with the wind"?
I remember you saying
something about it once.
Me and you went to see
that movie, remember?
I thought maybe you could read it
out loud. Help kill time or something.
Thanks a lot, Johnny.
- Cigarettes. — a deck of cards.
Peroxide?
- — You ain't thinking...
- We're gonna cut our hair, ponyboy.
You're gonna bleach yours.
They'll have our descriptions in the paper,
we can't fit 'em, man.
No, sir.
You ain't gonna touch my hair.
We have to anyway, if we got caught,
the first thing the judge does
is make you get a haircut.
- I don't see why.
- — I don't either.
It's just the way
they're trying to break us.
I'm gonna cut mine off, too,
and wash all the grease out.
No, sir, you ain't touching my hair.
— ponyboy, it's gonna grow back, man.
It's not that it won't.
Go ahead.
Sorry, man.
Damn knife.
Don't pull so hard.
— quit gabbing!
- Ow!
- Sorry, man.
- Can I see now?
- — no. You gotta bleach it first.
Well, then bleach it. Quit cutting.
Hey, pony, this'll do it.
Here.
Jesus!
This really makes me look tough!
All right, go ahead.
Get your jollies.
My pleasure!
— yeah, I know it is.
Be nice.
- — Hurts, don't it?
- Yeah, yeah.
Come on, man!
I didn't cut that much off of you!
- — It was your bright idea, smarty.
- Ow!
[Birds twittering, frogs croaking]
[Johnny] Well, I guess we're disguised.
[Ponyboy] I guess so.
Oh, shoot, man, it's just hair.
Shoot nothing. This just ain't us.
It's like being in a Halloween costume
you can't get out of and I hate it.
Well, we got to get used to it, ponyboy.
We're in big trouble
and it's our looks or us.
[Ponyboy] The next four or five days
were the longest days
I've ever spent in my life.
[Frogs croaking, crickets chirping]
[Owl hoots]
- Johnny, are you awake? —yeah.
There's a monster outside.
What?
We're gonna be ok, ponyboy.
"Lying in the pit of the sun,
shoulder to shoulder, head to feet,
were hundreds of wounded men
lying in the tracks, the sidewalks,
stretched out in endless rows,
under the car shed.
Some lay stiff and still,
but many withered in the hot sun.
Everywhere swarms of flies
hovered over the men
crawling and buzzing
in their faces."
Man, that's gross!
"Everywhere was blood,
dirty bandages, groans,
screamed curses of pain."
Now!
Ho! [Chuckles]
Get him! Get him!
Come on, pony, get him!
Come on, get him!
Whoa! Come back here!
Watch your smoke, Johnny.
[Crickets chirping]
[Birds twittering]
[Ponyboy] "One morning,
I woke up earlier than usual.
The church was colder than ever."
Golly. That was sure pretty, huh?
Yeah.
It's like the mist is what's pretty,
you know.
All gold and silver.
Mm-hm.
Too bad it can't stay like that
all the time.
"Nothing gold can stay".
Huh?
"Nature's first green is gold,
her hardest hue to hold.
Her early leaf's a flower;
but only so an hour.
Then leaf subsides to leaf.
So Eden sank to grief,
so dawn goes down today.
Nothing gold can stay."
Where did you learn that?
That's what I meant.
Robert frost wrote it.
I remembered it, cos I never
quite knew what he meant by it.
You know, I never noticed
colours, clouds and stuff
until you kept reminding me
about them.
It's kind of like
they were never there before.
Yeah.
I don't think I could ever
tell Steve or two-bit or even darry
about the clouds and sunset.
Just you and sodapop.
Maybe cherry valance.
I guess we're different, huh?
Shoot, kid. Maybe they are.
Maybe you're right.
[Car approaches]
[Car engine stops]
[Door creaks]
Hey, blondie! [Chuckles]
Hey, dal. — wake up.
- How you been?
- — hey, Johnny, rise and shine, man!
- How's soda doing?
- — hey, Dallas! How are you?
- Is he upset?
- — are the fuzz after us?
Wait. One thing at a time. Are
you guys hungry? I'm starving, man.
You're starving?
Try baloney for four days!
[Chuckles]
- You got a cancer stick, Johnny?
- — yeah.
I got a special delivery for...
A ponyboy Curtis.
- For you, man.
- — who's this from?
The president
of the United States of America.
Yeah, right! — I'm serious, man.
From your brother, sodapop.
How did he know I was here?
I told him I didn't know where you were,
but he didn't believe me.
He really wanted me
to give that to you, man.
[Sodapop] "I guess you got
into some trouble, huh?
Darry's awfully sorry he hit you.
You know he didn't mean it.
Dallas got hauled into the station,
and scared us something awful.
And I wish you'd come back
and turn yourselves in.
We miss you.
Say hi to Johnny for us.
Sodapop Curtis."
Dal, what's going on with the cops?
Did you hear anything?
How come you got hauled in?
Those boys down at the station
know me by now.
While I was there, they beat it
out of me that you guys were...
Get this one. That you guys
were headed for Texas, man.
They think you guys are in Texas.
Texas, man! God!
Look at this guy with his hair, man.
I can't believe that.
Blondie, man.
I know I look lousy,
but don't rub it in.
You guys wanna get something to eat?
Hey, you better believe it!
Let's get out of here.
[Johnny] Where did you get this car?
Huh?
It's buck's.
— [ponyboy] Dal, don't!
Watch it! — I got it.
What are you doing?
— don't, dal! Watch it!
I hope you guys are in the mood
for barbecue, man.
[Man] Stupid jerk!
— trying to kill us?
Can we have three barbecue
sandwiches, three cokes and a...?
You guys really are hungry, huh?
That kid you killed
had plenty of friends.
It's all over town —
Soc against grease.
- Look, I started carrying a heater.
- — dal, you kill people with heaters.
Don't worry. It ain't loaded.
Hey, mister, do you have 15 cents?
Nah, I don't have any money, man.
- Are you sure?
- Could you go away? We're busy here.
- Do you have a dime?
- Could you go away?
- Go away! Get out of here!
That was a close call.
Tim Shepard's gang and our outfit
are gonna have it out with the socs
in a vacant lot tomorrow night.
Hey, I didn't tell you we got a spy.
A spy? Who?
Remember that good-looking broad
I tried to pick up
the night you wasted that kid?
What's her name?
Uh, cherry something... the redhead?
- Cherry valance!
- — [Johnny] Cherry, the soc. Yeah.
Yeah, we were hanging out
down at a vacant lot,
and she pulls up
in a little old stinger, right?
I thought that took a lot of nerve.
— yeah.
She said that she'd testify
that the socs were drunk,
and they were the ones
looking for the fight.
And you guys just fought back
strictly on self-defence.
So, it's cool.
Man, that little broad
sure does hate me.
I offered to take her for a coke,
and she told me to go to hell.
I don't know.
Yeah.
So you think
she might like me a little bit?
Huh? I think she's kinda cute.
_ no? — right.
What do they do for kicks round here?
Play checkers or something?
This place is out of it.
I've never been
to the country before.
We're gonna turn ourselves in.
What? What?
I got a good chance
of being let off easy.
It was self-defence. You just said.
Pony and cherry could testify.
We won't say you helped us.
I'll give you back that gun.
You won't get into any trouble, dal.
- Are you sure this is what you want?
- — yeah.
It ain't fair for darry and soda
to worry about ponyboy all the time.
- I don't guess my folks are worried about me.
- Hey, man, the boys are worried!
Two—bit wanted to go to Texas
to hunt for you!
Dallas, I asked if my parents
asked about me.
No, they didn't! So what?
Do you think my old man gives a hang
if I'm dead in a car wreck
or drunk or in jail or something?
He doesn't care!
But that doesn't bother me none!
Come on.
You're not going anywhere.
I get you this hideout.
I get you a hangout, man, a hideout.
And look at this. You wanna split.
This is just terrific.
Johnny, you don't know what
a few months in jail can do to you.
You get mean in jail.
I just don't want to see it happen
to you like it happened to me.
[Exhales]
[Shouting]
What's going on?
— I wonder how that started?
Jesus Christ!
Pony, where are you going?
Get over here, man!
- Gerry, some of the children are missing!
- — no, they're not, Theresa.
I'm sure of it. Some have been gone
for half an hour!
-[Shouting] —[Woman] Oh, my god!
Get a hold of yourself!
Hey, come back! Come back!
Don't go in there! You'll get hurt.
- — Don't!
- Come here, man! Get over here!
Come here!
You're gonna get him?
Pony!
You children, get back before you get hurt.
[Coughs]
Whoa!
[Sobbing]
What was that?
Is that guy coming? — no.
- How come? Too scared?
- — no. He's too fat.
[Girl screaming]
Johnny, watch out!
— we'll get you out of here!
[Children sobbing]
The kids! Save the kids! They're children!
[Girl] Help me! Over here!
In the corner!
[Dallas] Move it! Get out, get out!
[Johnny] Look, man, in here!
[Girl screams]
[Johnny coughing]
Hey, dal! Take this kid, man!
Take him!
Come on, get out of there, Johnny.
Come on, man!
- Are you ok?
- Ow!
Pony, take them,
give them to Dallas!
Get 'em and get out!
[Dallas coughing]
- — Johnny! Mind the roof!
- Come on, Johnny!
Johnny! Come on!
Are you crazy? Move!
- You're burning!
- — I've got to get him!
No! Johnny!
Jesus Christ! Stupid kid!
[Johnny screaming]
Help!
I'm coming, Johnny!
[Sirens wail]
Johnny, Dallas...
— they're all right.
They're behind us.
They're in another ambulance.
Anyway, you guys are the bravest kids
I've seen in a long time.
What, are you guys
professional heroes or something?
We're greasers.
Are... are you kidding me?
— no, I ain't kidding you.
Take me to town.
You'll find out pretty fast.
[Clears throat]
You know,
you shouldn't be smoking, son.
Why not?
Cos you're a young man, that's why.
It's a bad habit to get into.
You're smoking.
I'm older than you. I've been smoking
for a long time, too.
[Clears throat]
Pull another stunt like that again,
I'm gonna kill you.
Ponyboy!
Oh, look at your tough hair.
Pony.
Darry, I'm sorry!
[Sobs] I thought we lost you,
like we did mum and dad.
You sure look funny!
Let's go, little brother. We're home.
Whoa! [Laughs]
— he's getting pretty big to be carried.
[Dogs barking]
[Cockerel crowing, birds Twitter]
[Whistles]
Anybody home?
— yeah, in here. Don't slam the door.
[Door slams shut]
- Ponyboy Curtis! [Laughs]
- — hey!
What you doing? Look what you did!
— whoa!
You made me ruin my eggs,
drop my spoon.
Look at the blond-headed monkey!
I wouldn't have believed it,
if! Hadn't seen it in the paper.
Tell me, ponyboy,
what's it like being a hero, huh?
A what?
A hero, man.
You know, like a, like a big—shotie.
Beer for breakfast, two—bit?
What I like is the "turn hero" bit.
They're charging Johnny
with manslaughter?
What do they mean, "if he recovers"?
It also says how you
saved them kids, ponyboy.
How they'd burned to death,
if it hadn't been for you.
Dallas will be mad when he hears
they didn't mention his police record.
— ain't that true.
It's all about us.
Darry, me and soda.
Not a thing about putting me and soda
in a boys' home?
No way!
No, they ain't putting me
in a boys' home!
Oh, hell, ponyboy,
they don't do that to heroes.
Where is soda and super-dope,
anyhow?
Whoa! Morning! — shut the door!
[Grunts] Or what?
All brawn and no brains.
Darry, have you seen my dx shirt?
Hey, you gotta wear pants, too, buddy.
I think there's a law about that.
- How about my jeans?
- — I ironed 'em. They're in my closet.
- — Darry...
- Hurry up! You're gonna be late.
Darry, did you... did you hear
about that juvenile court thing?
Yeah, the cops told me last night.
[Two—bit] Hey, after we stomp
the socs real good,
me and Steve are gonna throw a party
and everyone's gonna get ripped!
- Where you gonna get the dough?
- — I'll think of something.
Hey, two—bit, Mickey's on TV.
[Daffy] Pony? Pony?
[Door slams shut]
You know, I hate
to leave you here by yourself.
Maybe I ought to take the day off.
I'll be ok. I've stayed by myself
plenty of times.
Besides, we can't afford it.
Yeah, but I really ought to stay.
— don't worry. I'll baby—sit him.
[Steve] Hey, why don't you get a job?
Ever think of getting a job, two—bit?
[Darrel] Hey, soda, come on!
We gotta get to work!
I gotta quit smoking,
or I won't make track next year.
[Darry] Hey, y'all, do up the dishes.
I'm gonna out off your hair.
— [darrel] Two—bit, lay off!
Yeah, two—bit, lay off.
— he ain't looking so good.
Lazy bum!
Pony...
You smoke more than a pack today,
and I'll skin you. You understand?
Yeah.
If you carry more than one bundle
of roofing at a time today,
me and soda here will skin you,
understand?
- Hey, say hi to Johnny.
- — all right.
- See you later, pony. — ok.
[Dogs barking]
[Pony] We gotta clean up the house.
The cops and reporters
are gonna come by.
And besides it's time for the people
from the state to check on us.
Shoot, this house ain't messy.
You ought to see my house.
I have, and if you had the sense
of a Billy goat,
you'd clean your house up,
instead of bumming around ours.
Shoot, kid! If! Ever did that,
my mum would die of shock.
[Loud music from TV]
[Goofy on TV] Mm-hm. Am I hungry?
I would drive, but the brakes
went out on my car.
Almost killed me and Kathy
the other night.
You ought to meet her brother.
Now, there's a hood.
Boy, he's so greasy,
he glides when he walks.
He goes to the barber shop
for an oil change, not a haircut!
[Chuckles]
- Stay close.
- — what do they want?
I don't know.
— how many guys were in the car?
There were five.
Come on. Let's hurry up inside.
Let's see what they want.
Why do you want to see
what they want?
Just stay there.
No jabs before the rumble.
You know the rules, ape face.
We know. I wanna talk to you.
- Go ahead. I'll keep my eye on him.
- [Randy] Come on.
Speaking of the rumble, pal...
I read about you in the paper.
How come?
I don't know.
I felt like playing the superhero.
I wouldn't have.
— you wouldn't have what?
I would have let those kids
burn to death.
You might not have.
You might have done the same thing.
I don't know.
I just don't know
anything any more, I guess.
I never would have believed a greaser
could pull something like that.
A greaser didn't have
nothing to do with it.
Check out their pants! [Laughs]
Do you wanna talk inside?
Are you boys waiting for a flood?
[Laughter]
I hear they stamp your face
into gorilla cookies.
You're funny(!) — oh, yeah?
I couldn't tell this to anyone else.
My friends,
they'd think I was off my rocker.
That friend of yours, the one
that got burned, he might die.
Yeah.
And tonight, people will get hurt
at the rumble. Maybe killed, right?
You can't win.
You know that, don't you?
It doesn't matter if you whip us,
you'll still be where
you were before - at the bottom.
We'll still be the lucky ones
at the top with all the breaks.
It doesn't matter.
The greasers will still be greasers,
and the socs will still be socs.
It doesn't matter.
Anyway, thanks, greaser.
Hey, I didn't mean that.
I meant, thanks, kid.
It's been nice talking to you, Randy.
My name's ponyboy.
[Horn honks]
You're real funny, two—bit(!)
Come on, let's go.
- — Now get the hell out of here.
- See you at the rumble.
We're gonna kick some ass tonight.
So what did mr super soc have to say?
He ain't a soc.
Just a guy that wanted to talk,
that's all.
- Take care.
- See you later. Take it easy.
Take it easy! [Laughs]
Hey, Johnny.
— [Johnny] Hey, y'all.
How are they treating you, kid?
Look, got your picture in the paper
here for... being a hero.
Look at that.
Yeah, that's tough enough, huh?
Guess you can look at it later.
Do you want anything?
A book, man.
Can y'all get me another one?
I think he wants a copy
of "gone with the wind",
so I can read it to him.
Would you mind going downstairs
and getting one?
They got a gift shop downstairs.
I'll go get it.
I guess dal's gonna be ok.
Me and darry,
we're getting along real good now.
[Groans]
Johnny, are you ok?
Oh, yeah. It just hurts sometimes.
Usually, it don't,
cos I can't feel anything
below the middle of my back.
Pretty bad off, ain't I, ponyboy?
[Sobs] No.
You're gonna be all right, kid.
You gotta be.
Couldn't get along without you.
I won't be able to walk again.
— huh?
Not even on crutches.
Doc says I busted my back.
[Sniffs] You're gonna be fine.
I know you are.
You wanna know something, ponyboy?
I used to talk about killing myself
all the time.
Man, I don't wanna die now.
It ain't long enough.
16 years ain't gonna be long enough.
Hell, I wouldn't have minded so much,
if there wasn't so much stuff
I ain't done yet.
So many, so many damn things
I ain't seen or nothing.
That time we were up
in windrixville...
Was the only time I've ever been away
from our neighbourhood.
[Grunts]
Knock it off.
If you get too juiced up,
the doc won't let us see you no more.
Johnny, your mother's here
to see you.
I don't wanna see her.
It's your mother.
She's here to see you.
I said I don't wanna see her.
She probably just wants to tell me
how much trouble I'm causing.
Why don't you tell her
to leave me al...
[Groans]
- — [Two-bit] What's the matter?
- You can't see him now.
Pony, is he ok? — I don't know.
He's all right.
- Make sure he gets this, all right?
- — ok.
- What's happened to your gown?
- — I threw it away.
Get out! Just get out!
You make my stomach sick!
[Laughs]
- How are you doing?
- How are you doing, man?
Swiped you a gift, man.
It's good to see you guys, man.
This place gives me the creeps.
I want out.
[Door shuts]
Tim Shepard dropped by.
Saw my picture in the paper
and couldn't believe
it didn't have "wanted dead or alive"
written underneath it.
He started rubbing it in
about the rumble, man.
I hate missing it.
You got a cigarette, pone?
Thanks.
[Sighs]
How is he?
How's Johnny doing, man?
Look, dal,
I don't know about stuff like this,
but... but he didn't look too good.
He passed out cold before we left.
You still got that knife on you?
What? — the knife.
Give me it, will you?
[Knife clicks]
Thank you.
You know,
we gotta win that fight tonight.
We gotta get even with those socs!
Let's do it for Johnny, man.
We'll do it for Johnny!
Are you ok, pony?
Well, you feel kinda hot.
I'm ok.
Be a pal and don't tell darry,
ok, two-bit?
I'll take a bunch of aspirins
when I get home.
All right.
Darry will kill me if he finds out
you're sick, and you fight anyway.
Keep your trap shut,
he won't find nothing out.
You know the only thing that keeps
darry from being a soc is us?
Yeah, I know.
Come on, man.
[Pony] Tonight...
I don't like it one bit.
Something awful is gonna happen.
[Brakes screech]
We're gonna stomp ass
on those socs tonight.
Everything's gonna be all right.
— yeah.
[Chatting and shouting]
[Ponyboy] Tough little kids, huh?
— [two—bit] Yeah. Future greasers.
[Ponyboy] Yeah!
[Cherry] Ponyboy!
Hey, two—bit!
What's up with the big times?
[Sighs] No weapons.
They play your way. It's a fair deal.
Are you sure about that?
Well, Randy told me.
He knows for sure.
Good deal. Thanks, cherry.
Ponyboy, wait a minute.
Come here. I wanna talk to you.
How's Johnny doing?
Not so good.
Would you come up and see him?
- No, I couldn't. — why not?
I couldn't.
He killed Bob!
Maybe Bob asked for it.
I know he did.
[Sighs]
But you didn't know his other side.
He could be real sweet.
He wasn't just any boy.
Bob had something
that made him different.
Made people follow him. Maybe better
than the crowd. You know what I mean?
That's ok.
I don't want you to go see him.
We don't need your damn charity!
Ponyboy!
I wasn't trying to give you charity!
I only wanted to help.
I liked you from the start.
The way we talked.
Wouldn't you try to help me
if you thought you could?
Can you see the sunset
from the southside very good?
Yeah, real good.
You can see it
from the northside, too.
[Chuckles]
Thanks, ponyboy. You dig ok.
See you around.
- Soda, when did you start shaving?
- — when I was 15.
When did, when did darry?
— when he was 13.
Why? Figuring on growing
a beard for the rumble?
Oh, you're funny(!)
Maybe I'll send you
into the reader's digest.
They pay a lot of money
for funny things.
Let's go, then. — forget it.
- Come on. Come on, soda.
- — you like fights, huh, soda?
Yeah, I like fights, man.
— you like fights, huh?
- — How come?
- It's a contest.
It's like a drag race,
or a dance or something.
[Two—bit] We're gonna beat
them socs' heads in, ain't we?
When I get into a fight,
I wanna stomp! I like it, too.
[Grunts]
Why do you like fights, darry?
He likes to show off his muscles!
Hey, I'm gonna show 'em off on you,
if you get any mouthier!
Hey, pony...
I don't know if you ought to be
in this rumble.
How come? I've always
come through before, ain't I?
Yeah, but, you know,
you was in shape before, and...
You know, you ain't looking so good.
You're tensed up all the time.
Come on, darry, let him fight, man.
Everyone's tensed up before a rumble.
It's skin against skin.
He ain't gonna get hurt, is he?
Come on.
I'll grab hold of a little one.
We will need every man we can get,
but... I don't know.
If it was with knives or chains,
it'd be different.
I'll be ok.
- — All right, but you be careful, ok?
- I will be.
How come you never
worry about him so much?
Man, that's one kid brother
I ain't gotta worry about.
This kid can use his head. At least
for one thing, to grow hair on!
Get out!
[Shouting and cheering]
[Cheering and laughter]
All right! Yeah! Go, go, go!
Come on, come on, come on!
What do you think?
Woo—how!
- Come on! Come on! — woo!
You and ponyboy, if the fuzz show,
beat it out of there.
We'll getjailed,
but you two will get the boys' home.
Know what I'm saying?
Ain't nobody gonna call the fuzz
in this neighbourhood!
All the same, you two beat it
out of there. Do you hear me?
Yeah, bro.
How are you doing, Tim?
Pretty good.
You and the quiet kid were the ones
who killed the soc, right?
- — Yeah.
- Good going, kid.
Curly always said
you were a good kid.
Curly's in the reformatory
for the next six months.
[Chatting]
[Thunder rumbles]
[Chatting and laughter]
The odds are as even as we can get.
You stay close to me, kid.
[Chatting]
Hello, darrel. Long time no see.
Hello, Paul.
What's up?
They used to buddy around together,
play football.
I'll take you.
You know, a rumble
ain't a rumble without me!
[Shouting]
[Screams]
[Darrel] Ponyboy!
[Howling]
[Shouting]
What are you guys doing?
Let's get out of here!
Ponyboy, are you ok?
[Cheering]
Are you ok? Come on.
Woo! Yeah!
[Siren wails]
W—w-wait. Act sick. I'll pretend
like I'm taking you to the hospital.
You've got to have a good reason
for driving like that.
Uh, the kid fell off his motorcycle.
I'm taking him to the hospital.
[Groans]
- How bad is he?
- — I don't know, man.
Do I look like a doctor?
He looks pretty bad to me.
Follow me. — all right.
Sucker!
[Siren wails]
Man.
I was crazy. You know that, kid?
I was crazy about wanting Johnny
to stay out of trouble, man.
If he was smart like me,
he wouldn't have been in this mess.
he wouldn't have ran in that church!
You better wise up, pony, man.
You just better wise up, man.
You get tough like me,
and you don't get hurt!
Watch out for yourself,
and nothing can touch you, man!
Hey, Johnny.
We beat the socs, man.
We chased them right out
of our neighbourhood.
Go on. — it's useless.
- Huh? — fighting ain't no good.
You know, they're still writing
editorials about you in the papers,
you know, about you being a hero.
We're all proud of you, buddy.
It's gonna be all right.
Ponyboy...
[Whispers] Ponyboy...
S-S-S...
Stay gold, ponyboy.
[Whispers] Stay gold.
Johnny, come on.
S-So, this is what you get, huh?
This is what you get
for helping people?
You punk!
Come on, Johnny! Don't die!
Come on.
Come on, Johnny. Don't die on me now.
Please.
[Sobs]
Bastards!
Hey, you, you're not allowed here.
I'm allowed anywhere I want.
[Gun clicks]
- [Gun clicks]
- You're out of your mind.
Why do you bother helping people?
It doesn't do any good!
What do you think, soda?
Do you think it makes me look tough?
I think it makes you look different.
That guy had sharp teeth.
What do you mean by "different"?
You got a hole in your mouth.
[Door slams shut]
[Darrel] Hey, where you been?
Hey, pony, what...? What's wrong?
Johnny's dead.
I told him about beating the socs.
I don't know... he just died.
Told me to "stay gold".
Hey, pony.
Dally's gone.
He couldn't take it. He's gonna blow.
[Assistant clears throat]
[Clears throat]
Do you wanna buy one of those, son?
You tear those up, you have
to pay for 'em. Don't do that.
You know,
you gotta pay for that magazine.
Oh, god. Don't shoot.
Give me the money.
Give me the money!
I'm so sick of you punks.
Take it and get out of here!
- [Steve] Yeah? — hello, darrel?
No, it's Steve. Dally?
- — Steve, I want to talk to darry.
- Yeah, sure.
Hello?
- All right, darry, listen.
- — yeah?
I just knocked off a store, man.
The cops are looking for me.
- Can you meet me in the park?
- Sure, dal. Are you all right?
Yeah. Johnny's dead. — we know.
Johnny...
- — Meet me in the park, will you?
- Hang on. We'll be right there.
That was dally. The cops
are after him. We gotta hide him.
[Tyres screech]
[Sirens wail]
- — You're never gonna get me alive!
- [Policeman] Drop it!
It's not loaded! Don't! — stop!
- [Ponyboy] It's not loaded!
- — [gunshot]
[Ponyboy] No!
- — No!
- [Gunshots]
[Darrel] He's just a kid!
- [Ponyboy] No! — pony?
Ponyboy, I asked the nurse
to give you this book,
so you could finish it.
It was worth saving those kids.
Their lives are worth more than mine.
They have more to live for.
Tell dally I think it's worth it.
I'm gonna miss you guys.
I've been thinking about it, and
that poem, that guy that wrote it.
He meant you're gold
when you're a kid. Like green.
When you're a kid everything's new.
Dawn.
Like the way you dig sunsets, pony.
That's gold.
Keep it that way.
It's a good way to be.
I want you to ask dally
to look at one.
I don't think
he's ever seen a sunset.
There's still lots of good
in the world.
Tell dally. I don't think he knows.
Your buddy, Johnny.
'When I stepped out
into the bright sunlight
from the darkness of the movie house...
J' seize upon the moment long ago
j' one breath away
and there you will be
j' so young and carefree
j' again you will see
I that place in time
j' so gold
I still away into that way back when
I you thought
that all would last for ever
I but like the weather
j' nothing can ever and be in time
j' stay gold
I but can it be when we can see
I so vividly a memory
I and "yes" you say
j' so must the day too fade away
j' and leave a ray of sun
j' so gold
j' life is but a twinkling of an eye
j' yet filled with sorrow
and compassion
j' though not imagined
I all things that happen
I will age too old
j' though gold
j' gold, gold, though gold j'
[music continues]
[Music fades out]